---
layout: post
title: "Why I Chose Tidal for Music Streaming"
---

In the crowded world of music streaming platforms, I found Tidal to be a standout choice, primarily because of its superior audio quality. As someone working in audio mixing and mastering, this feature is crucial to my listening experience.

#### Superior Audio Quality

The main reason I opted for Tidal over other services is the unparalleled audio quality it offers. Tidal is the only streaming platform that provides hi-res mastering grade audio. For me, the difference between Tidal’s high-resolution tracks and the 320kbps AAC files offered by other platforms is stark. The downgrade in quality on other platforms significantly detracts from the way music was originally recorded, mixed, mastered, and presented.

#### My Listening Setup

I listen to music using an open-back headphone and a dedicated DAC, emphasizing the importance of a high-fidelity listening experience. This setup allows me to fully appreciate the nuances and details in the music, which are preserved in Tidal’s high-res audio.

#### Impact on Music Appreciation

Interestingly, I use Tidal purely for personal enjoyment rather than for my professional work. One of the features I love the most is the ability to track credits for artists and mix engineers. This allows me to follow the work of my favorite engineers, offering a unique way to explore and appreciate music. When listening to music, I primarily focus on how these professionals produce the song rather than just enjoying the song itself. This feature helps me keep track of certain engineers and their distinct mixing styles.

#### User Interface Drawbacks

Despite its audio advantages, Tidal's user interface leaves much to be desired. The interface is boring and less appealing compared to competitors like Spotify. Issues such as lyrics not displaying correctly further detract from the user experience.

#### Openness to Change

If another platform were to offer similar audio quality, I would consider switching. I’m not a fanatic who sticks to a certain brand for so long. There is a big possibility that I might move to another platform in the future. This pragmatic approach highlights the ongoing importance of innovation and user experience in retaining subscribers in the competitive music streaming market.

For now, Tidal remains my go-to choice for its unmatched sound quality and unique features that cater to my appreciation of the art of mixing and mastering.